Field/ Attribute:
A field is a piece of information about an element. A field is represented by a column. Every field has got
a title called the field title.


Record (Tuple):
A record is information about an element such as a person, student, an employee, client, etc. A record
can have much information in different heading or titles.


Table:
A table isthe arrangements ofrows and columns. Each table must have unique name andmust be simple.
It is the place where data and information are stored.


Objects:
Database Objects are the essential tools of relational database. These database objects helps to store,
view, edit and manipulate the data and information stored in database.



It can be used to hold and manipulate the data. Some of the examples of database objects are view,
sequence, indexes, form, query report etc.


 Table: Basic unit of storage; composed rows and columns

 View: Logically represents subsets of data from one or more tables
 Sequence: Generates primary key values
 Index: Improves the performance ofsome queries
 Synonym: Alternative name for an object
Some Basic Terms used in Database
 Schema: A schema isthe structure of database which defines name of tables, data fields with data
types, relationships and constraints.
 Instance: It defines data values in a record.
 Entity: An entity is a thing or object in the real world that is different from other objects.
 Attribute: Attribute is properties possessed by an entity orrelationship.
 Index: It is used to create indexes in database. It helps searching and sorting operation faster and
improves the performances of queries.
 Query: It isthe object of DBMS which is mainly used to extract and upgrade the necessary records
that are present in the database.
 Form: It is object of database which is mainly used for data entry. It is easy to add, modify and
delete the records in form.
 Report: Report are the printed output that is created from table or query. We can't add, modify
and delete the records in report.
